Compliance is also relevant in the manufacturing area. Therefore, it is important to identify and to know how to handle possible Compliance topics in that part of the business. Identified fields of Compliance related challenges are: - Handling of Company property - Theft of equipment constitutes damage to the company`s property and must be reported (see „IncidentReporting@Siemens (IR@S)or GM SEC Abteilung ) - Scrap and leftover material from the production must be handled in a proper way (see One pager) - Handling of Company information requires considerable vigilance - Your signature your responsibility means that those who have authority to sign should always check very carefully what they are about to approve when they are asked to sign(see Integrity Moments 2018) - Conflict of interest (see Chapter A.4.) - Reporting of wrongdoing (see Business Conduct Guidelines, Chapter Our reporting procedures) . - Child labor is strictly prohibited at production facilities (see Chapter E.6.6.1.1.). The Quick guide : Compliance@Production Facilities can be found here. English version German version NL version A scribble video explaining SIEMENS Compliance at production facilities can be found here (available also in Dutch). It explains in a smart and easy to understand way how Compliance also has an effect within production facilities. The Video uses a potential theft as an example to explain: - Compliance in general - tasks of the compliance organization - actions in case of theft - reporting channels - whistleblowing - Compliance and ownership culture. A special WBT for colleagues in production facilities will be available soon. One pager: How to tackle scrap-related issues can be found here. Protection Concept Factory for critical IT assets also exists. Date Author Major changes of binding content April 1, 2020 Yvonne Hamm-Düppe Initial version July 1, 2020 Yvonne Hamm-DüppeTanja Gerecke Minor editorial changes Oct. 1, 2020 Yvonne Hamm-DüppeTanja Gerecke Minor editiorial changes - Compliance Officer The Compliance Officer responsible for your unit can be found through the following link. - Corporate Governance Owner Tanja Gerecke (LC CO DI MC) Yvonne Hamm-Düppe (LC CO RFC LF)