The basic principles on data protection to be observed by all Siemens employees are listed in the Chapter Data Privacy: Responsibility (Chapter Part 1 D.1.). This Chapter compiles the special obligations for data deletion and retention that must be observed by Compliance employees in the context of Compliance Case Handling , as well as Discipline and Remediation. In this context, it is important to take into account the particular tension between obligations regarding retention periods imposed by authorities or by law on the one hand, and the obligation for data economy and, above all, deletion on the other. What every Compliance employee must know: - Personal data must be deleted (Chapter Part 3 L.8.2.) when the purpose for processing the data no longer exists, unless retention obligations or rights (Chapter Part 3 L.8.1.) exist (Art. 17 GDPR). - The purpose of processing personal data in Compliance Case Handling is to ensure a functioning Compliance system, depending on the date in the form of - the Case Handling, i.e., the investigation of allegations of possible Compliance violations (Chapter Part 3 L.2) - responding to such violations, including appropriate Disciplinary Measures (Chapter Part 3 L.4), - the Remediation of weaknesses in processes (Chapter Part 3 L.5), - the handling of information requests from authorities (Chapter Part 3 L.7.1.), - the fulfillment of legal requirements (e.g. disclosure obligations, searches) (Chapter Part 3 L.7.1.) or - the pursuit of damage claims or other consequential issues (e.g. financial or tax implications). Insofar as no deviating regulations on data retention for Compliance Case Handling apply, the Siemens Guideline on retention obligations and periods (Leitfaden zu Aufbewahrungspflichten und -fristen - only available in German) apply. In particular, in the context of Compliance Case Handling, the statutory retention obligations (Chapter L.8.1.1.) and the retention rights in Siemens' own interest (Chapter L.8.1.2.) must be observed. Of particular interest in Compliance Case Handling are the retention obligations for lawyersfiles ( individual German statutory retention obligations (.) and the applicable national statutory retention obligations (.). According to German law , a lawyer shall retain files for 6 years after the end of the calendar year, in which he/she has brought a case to a conclusion, in order to be able to give an orderly account of his professional work. Files include - riginals or copies of documents received for or on behalf of the client on grounds of lawyers&39; professional practice, - correspondence between the lawyer and the client and/or - any other document necessary to comprehend the case. This applies accordingly in as far as the lawyer uses electronic data processing in order to keep files, such as LIA , but it does not apply to data stored in other LC CO IR tools, such as FCMS /Recommind data. However, evidence extracted from FCMS/Recommind data becomes part of the file stored in LIA and thus of the lawyers&39; file, as far as such evidence is necessary to comprehend the case. According to the German Money Laundering Act (Geldwäschegesetz), there is a 5-year retention obligation for all data collected and information obtained in the course of fulfilling due diligence obligations . Under German Securities Trading Law (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz), there is a retention obligation of 5 years 8. According to the German Fiscal Code (Abgabenordnung) and the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch), original invoices and underlying contractual and tax-related documents, i.e. in particular contracts with external lawyers, must be retained for 10 years 9. If the national law applicable in the specific case prescribes further retention periods, these must be observed separately. For details, please refer to the applicable national regulations and case law. A data retention right results from how long it is justified under data protection law, i.e. necessary for Siemens in the respective individual case, to take into account collected personal data in the context of a Compliance investigation ( or also with regard to imminent or pending damage claims, criminal or administrative fines proceedings (Chapter L.8.1.2.2.: Statutory Limitation Periods). A right of retention may arise in the course of a Compliance investigation. After a Compliance investigation has been initiated, LC CO IR may issue a Legal Hold (see Siemens Circular 226 Chapter 5.2.). This is an instruction to employees in the course of a Compliance investigation not to delete specified data (retention obligation). A further right to data retention in Compliance Case Handling arises due to imminent or pending damage claims and criminal or administrative fines proceedings. In this context, the applicable statutory periods of limitation must be taken into account, which justify further retention prior to their expiry. German Administrative and Criminal Law Depending on the exact allegations, the relevant statutory limitation period under German Administrative and Criminal Law is generally 6 months to 3 years and 3 to 5 years respectively after the offence has been completed. For practicability reasons, we assume that the beginning of the limitation period in our Compliance cases is near to case closing. However, if a result constituting an element of the offence occurs later, the limitation period shall commence to run from that time . Such a result could occur several years following case closing (e.g. ongoing payment under long-term contracts obtained by fraudulent or corruptive means). German Tax Laws Limitation period under relevant German Tax Laws is 4 to 10 years . German Civil Law For civil damage claims under German Civil Law relevant limitation period is 3 years starting at the end of the year in which the claim arose up to 30 years in case of excusable lack of claimant's knowledge of the circumstances giving rise to the claim and the identity of the obligor . FCPA/UK Bribery Act Similar applies under FCPA provisions, especially in case of conspiracy , while under the U.K. Bribery Act there is no formal statute of limitations at all . German Stock Corporation Law Additionally, Siemens management can be held liable for damage caused by not having duly organized the Compliance procedures for a period of 10 years, with the burden of proof for having applied the necessary diligence lying upon them . Once the Compliance case or process is closed, the data is generally no longer required for the purpose for which it was collected or otherwise processed and must be deleted subject to the retention obligations and rights mentioned above (see Chapter L.8.1.), as well as other national regulations applicable in the specific case. Data deletion shall be observed at each and every step of the Compliance Case Handling process up to and including disciplinary measures and remediation. The deletion of all personal data takes place: - Immediately in the case of obviously abusive or unsubstantiated information as well as in the case of information which already after a rough examination turns out to be obviously unsubstantiated and are not based on sufficient grounds for suspicion. - After 4 months in the case of data collection requests (Part 3 Chapter L.2.4.5.). - After 5 years of all data in the case of Compliance with the retention obligations under the German Securities Trading Act . - After 6 years in the case of Clearance, Closure Reports and all other Compliance cases that were closed without Findings or Compliance cases that were closed as implausible or duplicate. - After 10 years in the case of Investigation Reports and all other compliance cases closed with Findings , and in the case of original invoices and underlying contractually and fiscally relevant documents (e.g. attorney compensation agreements, time sheets) , - After 15 years in the case of disciplinary proceedings and actions following Compliance investigations . The deletion period begins - for data collection orders, immediately after the lawyer closes the case, - therwise, after the end of the calendar year in which the lawyer closed the case, or - for original invoices and underlying contractual and tax-related documents, after the end of the calendar year in which the document was created, or - after the end of the year in which the disciplinary measure was imposed. For deletion periods of the reports of all Compliance Case Handling Tools, please refer to the deletion periods in the respective report of the CDP Center. For support and guidance on relevant retention and deletion periods, see the Siemens Guideline on retention obligations and periods (Leitfaden zu Aufbewahrungspflichten und -fristen - only available in German). Date Author Major changes of binding content April, 1, 2021 Yvonne Hamm-Düppe New Chapter L.8: Transition and consolidation of key Compliance Case Handling regulations from the LC CO Data deletion and retention policy (dated Oct. 1, 2014, last amended Aug. 3, 2019); concurrently: repeal of the LC CO Data deletion and retention policy. - Compliance Officer The Compliance Officer responsible for your unit can be found through the following link. - Corporate Governance Owner Annette Kraus (LC CO IR)